Sprint 1 (2022 Oct 09th*)
=========================
Our goal is to write software that imports the data into a usable format. During the process, we will write the documentation, automation, and testing for this tool, and present both the analysis of our original inquiry and our results at the end of the term.

Our first phase is to find a datasource that is meaningful, and is able to answer a question and demonstrate a result. We will consider our preliminary project development plan, our chosen technology stack, and analyze options that are considered, chosen, or rejected.

2022 Sep 28th 14:32
-------------------
Team formed. Mack has confirmed he will be in this team after being in another team of four.
* Falcon: Friday preferred
* Piyush: Any time except Mondays due to lecture

Meeting decided on the 30th.

2022 Sep 30th 15:00 ~ 16:00
---------------------------
A GitHub repository was created.
* We want to make it public
* Invited both to github as collaborators

### Discussion
We talked about the assignment
* 2 things to start off
* think what we want the tech stack to be
* what do we want the data to be
* get data, import it into **datasette**, a tool for exploring and publishing data

We looked at the demo
* We will use **datasette** for data presentation
* **SQLite** will be useed for handling databases
* We need reasoning for each part of the tool we need for the toy application, use datasette to show the data, and create a hard-coded example
* Later on, we want the whole application with **map**, user can look at any piece of data and visualize whatever

Do we want to create our own dataset, or use something from kaggle
* looking at a few possibilities for data
* Crimes in US communities
    * excellent dataset

Why we think this is interesting?
* Seeing hotspots for crime
* Even visualizing them is interesting to see,
* look into live data source for crime data, this might just be a few cities

### Source
* https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/michaelbryantds/crimedata

Someone confirm with prof to see if this dataset is good?

### Tech stack
Lots of the backend stuff is taken care of datasette wise
* We need to get the datasource, put it in a database, use datasette to create a visualization
    * The bulk of the work is creating the surrounding UI for the visualization, UI should have a way to upload the data,
    * input into sqlite database, call to the db and send to datasette
* Frontend where the user can upload the data, any data they want, also having a selector for what visualization they want
    * for UI, we can use react, see what we can do
* Backend is probably bulk of the work
    * use python probably

### containerization
* Using **docker** is fine, just create a dockerfile

### prelim project development plan
how we want to split up the work, how that looks like for each milestone

### action items
Look more into datasette
* see what we can do
* how easy it is to interface
* how to cast the data
* what format should we store
* think about more features the app should have
    * maybe a selector for different visualizations

2022 Oct 04th 22:00
-------------------
Philippe has suggested these tools:
* https://datasette.io/for/websites
* https://datasette.io/for/data-journalism
* https://datasette.io/tools/download-tiles

2022 Oct 06th 16:00
-------------------
Second meeting, suggested at 10pm of yesterday. Mack was not able to join due to focusing on "a d18 assignment", so an alternative time was provided to fill in.

Discussed what we want to make, reiterated last meeting's meeting notes.

### Agenda: 
* Describe tech stack
* Toolchain
* Product development plan
* Toy application
* Setup docker

Piyush created a google doc that we can write our A1 information in. https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ulXdaumMEYbFADvhUH5Uu6EIC-aksnFrHDb_AWDGVYE/edit

Discussed toy application. 
* We will have very basic functionality.
* We just want to load the data into a sqlite db

Wrote the product developement plan
* Discussed the three milestones we want to have, wrote information about it in the googel doc

### Labor Division:
* Piyush to work on the toy application saturday and sunday
* Philippe to work on google doc
* Piyush + Mack to work on toy application and unit tests and docker

2022 Oct 09th 12:00
-------------------
Since Mack missed the previous meeting, a backup meeting was made. Piyush was present, Falcon cannot join due to travelling.

### Ideas for Meeting
* The test will be an SQL query.
* Piyush has used SQL in general, Postgresql
* Mack has built another sample fullstack toy application

### Plan for this long weekend
* Piyush will finish the SQL database, and make a test editor. []
* Mack will attempt to make a Docker container out of it. I will try to make two separate containers.

### Other notes
Write documentation for the docker run and docker build.
Philippe has also suggested to source live crime data from
* https://citizen.com/

Geolocating was also done, proposing a variety of sources including
* OpenStreetMap
* Geopy

Mack had some troubles with Docker, so he focused on the README.md instead.